Insights -
Most of the learners in the dataset (> 75%) have their employment start data after 2010. 
Top 2 most frequent job positions in the dataset are   Backend Engineer and Full-stack engineer.
The company with the most number of learners in the dataset is 'nvnv wgzohrnvzwj otqcxwto'.
Median CTC increases with years of experience as expected, however, after 30 years of experience, there is no uniform trend and we see ups and downs. This might be because there are very few learners with greater than 40 years of experience and thus, there is no sufficient data for a trend to emerge among learners with very high years of experience.
Data Analyst, which is usually considered an entry level job, has a few learners with unusually high CTC (>= 100000000) with just three years of experience. 
Top 5 job positions (which have at least 5 learners each) with the highest mean CTC are, in order, as follows - Security Leadership, Student, Release Engineer, Product Manager and Engineering Leadership. 
Top 5 companies (which have at least 10 learners each) with the highest mean CTC are, in order, as follows - 'x vb v eqtoytq' , 'wrvqxcvnt vzvrjnxwo', 'mvlvl vhng rna' , 'znn wgbbhzxwvnxgzo' and 'qvzaonva'.
We went with K=6 clusters in KMeans and K=5 in Agglomerative Clustering based on Elbow method and dendogram respectively. The agglomerative clustering is run on random sample of 5000 rows as its algorithm has high time complexity.
The characteristics of clusters identified in KMeans are very similar to those identified in hierarchical clustering. We describe some characteristics of clusters found by KMeans below.
The most numerous cluster (cluster number 5) has close to 70,000 samples. It is characterized by lowest mean CTC and lowest years of experience among all the clusters. The mean CTC_updated_year for this cluster is also recent compared to the rest.  This cluster likely represents the *rookies*, that is those learners who have started their professional careers relatively recently.
The smallest cluster by size (cluster number 4) contains 1,314 samples. It is characterized by very high mean CTC (this cluster has the highest mean CTC) but relatively low-medium mean years_of_experience. This is the *Outlier CTC* cluster. More investigation is needed into this cluster to find out if these are outliers or novelties or errors in data entry.
Cluster number 3, which has roughly 17000 samples, is likely the *Senior Role* Cluster. It is characterized by high CTC (second highest mean CTC among all clusters) and the highest mean years_of_experience among all clusters. The most frequent job position in the cluster is 'Engineering Leadership'.
Cluster number 1, which has roughly 15000 samples, is likely the *Professionally Stuck* cluster. This cluster has the earliest mean ctc_updated_year among all the clusters. This means that learners is this cluster haven't had promotions or increments since a long time and have plateued in their positions and companies.


Recommendations - 

Working professionals with characteristics similar to the ones in *Professionally Stuck* cluster have the most need for upskilling. To acquire customers of this category , Scaler can make video ads showing data and individual testimonials of successfully placed learners of this category. Most frequent companies and job positions in this cluster can be identified. Scaler Customer Acquisition team can then find learners at these companies and at these job positions on LinkedIn and contact them.
For helping the already enrolled learners in *Professionally Stuck* cluster, Scaler can organize master sessions featuring one or two hour sessions from already placed scalerites of this category.
Scaler can start a (Gen) AI + MBA kind of mixed program which will cater to business professionals want to get into AI-based tech management role.
The *Outlier CTC* cluster need more investigation. It must be found out if the CTC entries in that cluster are genuine signals or just due to errors in data entry.
Scaler can tie up with the companies having high mean CTC for placement